Remove MAP Legacy from 24.10 (#3659)
centreon/centreon-documentation: versioned_docs/version-24.10/graph-views/map-legacy-eol.md

---
id: map-legacy-eol
title: MAP Legacy end of life
---
import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

> > **MAP Legacy is no longer available from version 24.10, you have to use MAP.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **MAP Legacy is no longer available. Starting from version 24.10, you have to use MAP.**
```

This topic describes the steps to follow regarding MAP Legacy once you have migrated to the available version of MAP.

## How to fully uninstall MAP Legacy

As MAP Legacy is no longer delivered, you must uninstall it completely following the instructions below.

> It is mandatory to perform these steps now, as you may encounter issues when upgrading to later versions.

### Migrate to Centreon MAP

> > MAP Legacy must be uninstalled after you have migrated to MAP.

Reviewer: I would remove this one as this feels like too much repetition when reading the page.

Ensure you are using the [correct version of MAP](https://docs.centreon.com/docs/graph-views/introduction-map/). Use the [migration to Centreon MAP](https://docs.centreon.com/docs/graph-views/import-into-map-web/) procedure if needed.

### Remove the legacy package

Remove the **centreon-map-server** package from the server where MAP Legacy was installed:

<Tabs groupId="sync">
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 8">

```shell
dnf remove centreon-map-server
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9" label="Alma / RHEL / Oracle Linux 9">

```shell
dnf remove centreon-map-server
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="Debian 12" label="Debian 12">

```shell
apt remove centreon-map-server
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Optional procedures

> These cleaning procedures will allow you to work in an optimal environment. If you wish, you can make a backup of your data.

- Remove the legacy configuration files from the server where MAP Legacy was installed:
  
  ```shell
  rm -rf /etc/centreon-studio

>   ```

Reviewer: We should move this part about configuration files after the other bits below because we reference configuration files when we say "You can check the path with..." -- if the files are gone, then no, the user will not be able to do so.

- Remove the legacy log files:
  

>   > You can check the path with this command `/etc/centreon/studio/centreon-map.log`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > You can check the path in this file `/etc/centreon-studio/map-log.xml`. By default, this should be `/var/log/centreon-map/centreon-map.log`.
```

  ```shell

>   rm centreon-map.log

Reviewer: I would put the whole path that is used by default, for convenience. (And nobody changes this, really...)

```suggestion
  rm /var/log/centreon-map/centreon-map.log
```

  ```

- Remove the database that was used by MAP Legacy:
  

>   > You can check the service and the database with this command `/etc/centreon/studio/studio-database.properties`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  > You can check how to connect to the database server in this file `/etc/centreon-studio/studio-database.properties`
```

  ```shell

>   DROP DATABASE centreon_studio;

Reviewer: I'm not sure how to best describe it in the doc, but the user needs to connect to the database with the information found in the file above.

```suggestion
  mysql --host=$DB_HOST --port=$DB_PORT --user=$DB_USER --password $DB_NAME "DROP DATABASE centreon_studio;"
```

- if you were still using MAP Legacy and have already upgraded to Centreon 24.10, and want to switch to MAP without losing any data.
- if you had already migrated from MAP Legacy to MAP in an earlier version (then MAP Legacy files need to be removed).

If you were still using MAP Legacy, it is likely that you have never installed MAP before. To know whether MAP is installed on your platform, run the following command:

```shell

> rpm -qa | grep centreon-map-engine

Reviewer: rpm -q centreon-map-engine
